## 系统研究方法論：

### 第一阶段：

非还原論或者整体論，

### 第二阶段

复杂适应性系统理论，将系统中的成员称为具有适应能力的主体（agent），其适应性体现在能够与环境，其他主体进行交互，并在交互的过程中不断地学习或者积累经验。


 ### complex system beyond physisic
In this paper we review the essence of complex systems from a physicists' point of view, and try to clarify what makes them conceptually different from systems that are traditionally studied in physics. 


We mention three areas of complex-systems science that are currently studied extensively, the **science of cities**, **dynamics of societies**, and **the representation of texts as evolutionary objects**. 

The curiosity of physicists is taking the discipline to a wider set of fields, tackling problems traditionally seen to belong to the remits of other sciences and academic domains.

Historically, another more useful step in defining complex systems appeared in physics some time ago: a system is complex if its behaviour crucially depends on its details [4]. In this context, one means phenomena such as deterministic chaos, quantum entanglement, protein folding, spin glasses, etc. 

The essence of many complex systems is that the states of constituents and interactions co-evolve over time, meaning that interactions change states of constituents, and the states of the constituents change the networks of interactions between constituents [8]. 

If physics is the science of the four fundamental forces which hold matter together, the science of complex systems is its generalisation to forces and matter of a broader concept. Forces can be anything that change states of constituents, matter is anything where a force can apply [9]. Examples include in condensed matter, ecology, biology, stock markets, economics, sociology and humanities.


In complex systems we will keep the notion of probabilistic predictions. What is different
to classical statistical mechanics and quantum mechanics is that the underlying systems not only might have nonlinear interactions, but also interactions are time-varying. This may lead to much richer phase diagrams and macroscopic behaviours than we know from statistical mechanics.

Another important observable that is used to capture the inhomogeneities in interaction networks is the the so-called clustering coefficient $c_i$ of node i, which is is defined as **the proportion of neighbours of i that are mutually linked**. 

Assortativity measures the extent to which similar vertices associate with each other and, again, has impact on how interactions in a complex system manifest themselves and evolve over time.

### Network for a stacistical perspective

#### Terminology and notation

In this review, we will denote the total number of nodes in a network as N and the total number of edges as M. Networks are generally classified as undirected or directed corresponding to those that consist of undirected or directed edge interactions, respectively. Nodes are labeled by Latin letters such as i and j, undirected edge between i and j is denoted by (i, j), while a directed edge from i to j is denoted by 〈i, j〉. In-links and out-links are used to describe directed edges going in and out of a node. Most networks do not have parallel edges, i.e. edges with the same pair of end nodes and directions. The connectivity between nodes is characterized by the adjacency matrix A, with symmetric entries aij = aji = 1 when an undirected edge exists between nodes i and j, and aij = 1 in the case of a directed edge from node i to j, and 0 otherwise. We denote by $\\mathcal{L}\\_i$ the set of nodes connected to i. The diagonal elements aii in A are set to zero in most cases if link from node i to itself does not exist. Networks are said to be sparse, or sparsely connected, when nodes are generally connected to a small number of neighbors compared to N, and dense, or densely connected when the number of connections per node is O(N). In the study of disordered systems, the misleading term extreme dilution is sometimes used to describe a connectivity level smaller than O(N) but much larger than O(1).

#### Degree of Node. 
For undirected networks, the degree of a node is defined as the number of edges connected to it, and is usually denoted as ki = ∑jaij for node i. For directed networks, edges linking a node can be either going into or out of it, and the in-degree and out-degree of a node are defined as the number of in-links kini = ∑jaji and out-links kouti = ∑jaij, respectively. In general, nodes with degrees significantly larger than the surrounding nodes are considered important in the network, and are sometimes called hubs.


## complex network systems program final

### complex network systems research program element

1. Understanding network structure
2. Understanding network dynamics
3. Predictive modeling and simulation
4. Situational awareness, design and control of complex networks

Some of the specific mathematical and computational challenges include:



